good afternoon
i would like now to offer a brief
statement
in my national capacity as
representative
of the united states the united states
is alarmed by the humanitarian
and human rights situation in ethiopia
what's happening in ethiopia has had and
will continue to have
devastating consequences for thousands
of innocent people
and it poses a direct threat to regional
peace
and security we need to address it
immediately
the honest to prevent further atrocities
and human suffering
falls squarely on the ethiopian
government's shoulders we urge the
ethiopian government to support
an immediate end to the fighting
anti-grave
and to that end the prompt withdrawal of
eritrean forces
and amhara regional forces from to gray
are essential steps and we urge the
broader region to work
fast and together toward a peaceful
solution
for our part the united states is
committed to working bilaterally
and multilaterally to help secure an end
to the violence
we are committed to holding perpetrators
of abuses and violations on all sides
to account and we are committed to
addressing
and assisting with the humanitarian and
the human rights crisis
to that end this week we have deployed a
disaster
assistance response team to ethiopia
to lead the scale-up of u.s government
humanitarian
assistance our goal is to help people
affected by the conflict in the tigray
region
and our hope is that others will join us
in this urgent
necessary life-saving effort
looking to tomorrow we will be holding
close consultation on burma
the united states is gravely concerned
about the coup
and the bloodshed that has followed
there instead of demonstrating respect
for the rule of law
pursuing dialogue and refraining from
violence
the military has dramatically
accelerated
violence against the people of burma
over the past few years
this is simply unacceptable this place
is a real
this places a real importance on our
efforts tomorrow
the people of burma have stood firm for
democracy
our voices need to be equally firm and
they must be united in supporting
the people of burma thank you very much